Part 1 Assessment Criteria (Program) (40%) – These criteria are used to mark your work; we suggest you self-assess against these criteria before submission   
Criterion   	0-29%   
Fail   	30-39%   
Fail   	40-49%   
Low Fail  	50-59%    
Pass	60-69%  	70-79%  	80-100% 
Practical Skills 	Technical implementation (100%) 	Inadequate, poorly formed application that will be lacking in scope or detail or be underdeveloped. May not be obvious how the prototype solves the business problem.

Does not appear to use good UI and UX principles. May need explanation to know how to use it or would confuse or frustrated the user 
 	Limited application that is lacking in scope or detail but goes some way to solving the business problem, albeit not fully 
Utilises very basic UI/UX principles or uses principles that do not apply to the scenario being presented. May need some explanation to know how to use it or leave the user slightly confused or frustrated 
  	Significant gaps in prototype that largely fulfils the problem requirement but may lack some detail that a typical user might require to complete the task well 
Lacks some good UI/UX, or uses it inconsistently such that the user may not fully appreciate how to use it in all situations 	Good application that fulfils the problem requirement, with sufficiently detailed screens. May lack originality in that the problem has an easy and obvious solution.  
UI/UX could be improved but generally uses principles correctly or uses them inconsistently such that the user may feel a little confused. 	Very good application that fulfils the problem requirement with some originality in that some of the solution has an obvious solution.  
Very good UI/UX with some possible improvements or lack of consistency that would not confuse the user too much.	Excellent application that fulfils the problem requirements with an original solution.  
Excellent use of UI/UX principles in an original way that helps the user utilise the application with little training 	Outstanding application that fulfils the problem requirements with an innovative solution.  
Outstanding use of UI/UX principles in an original way that allows the user to use the application with no prior knowledge 
